Doc: Bluetooth: Mesh: Add RPR docs (#55904)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/connectivity/bluetooth/api/mesh/rpr_cli.rst

The Remote Provisioning Client model communicates with a Remote Provisioning Server model
using the device key of the node containing the target Remote Provisioning Server model instance.

If present, the Remote Provisioning Client model must be instantiated on the primary
element.

Scanning
********

The Remote Provisioning Client starts a scan procedure by using the :c:func:`bt_mesh_rpr_scan_start` call:

.. code-block:: C

      static void rpr_scan_report(struct bt_mesh_rpr_cli *cli,
                  const struct bt_mesh_rpr_node *srv,
                  struct bt_mesh_rpr_unprov *unprov,
                  struct net_buf_simple *adv_data)
      {

      }

      struct bt_mesh_rpr_cli rpr_cli = {
         .scan_report = rpr_scan_report,
      };

      const struct bt_mesh_rpr_node srv = {
         .addr = 0x0004,
         .net_idx = 0,
         .ttl = BT_MESH_TTL_DEFAULT,
      };

      struct bt_mesh_rpr_scan_status status;
      uint8_t *uuid = NULL;
      uint8_t timeout = 10;
      uint8_t max_devs = 3;

>       (void)bt_mesh_rpr_scan_start(&rpr_cli, &srv, uuid, timeout, max_devs, &status);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      bt_mesh_rpr_scan_start(&rpr_cli, &srv, uuid, timeout, max_devs, &status);
```
I guess the void conversion is not required for pseudo code.

procedure will start a ten second multiple devices scanning where the generated scan report will contain
a maximum of three unprovisioned device. If the UUID argument was specified, the same procedure would
only scan for the device with the corresponding UUID. After the procedure completes the
server will send the scan report that will be handled in the clients scan report callback.

Additionally, the Remote Provisioning Client model also supports extended scanning with the
:c:func:`bt_mesh_rpr_scan_start_ext` call:. Extended scanning supplements regular scanning by allowing the
RPR server to report additional data for a specific device. RPR Server will use active scanning to request
a scan response from the unprovisioned device if it is supported.

Provisioning
************

The Remote Provisioning Client starts a provisioning procedure by using the :c:func:`bt_mesh_provision_remote` call:

.. code-block:: C

      struct bt_mesh_rpr_cli rpr_cli;

      const struct bt_mesh_rpr_node srv = {
         .addr = 0x0004,
         .net_idx = 0,
         .ttl = BT_MESH_TTL_DEFAULT,
      };

      uint8_t uuid[16] = { 0xaa };
      uint16_t addr = 0x0006;
      uint16_t net_idx = 0;

>       (void)bt_mesh_provision_remote(&rpr_cli, &srv, uuid, net_idx, addr);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      bt_mesh_provision_remote(&rpr_cli, &srv, uuid, net_idx, addr);
```

to its primary element using the network key located at index zero.

Re-Provisioning
***************

In addition to scanning and provisioning functionality, the Remote Provisioning Client also provides means to
reconfigure node addresses, device keys and composition data on devices that support the
:ref:`bluetooth_mesh_models_rpr_srv` model. This is provided through the Node Provisioning Protocol Interface
(NPPI) which supports the following three procedures:

- Device Key Refresh procedure: Used to change the device key of the target node without a need to reconfigure the node.
- Node Address Refresh procedure: Used to change the node’s device key and unicast address.
- Node Composition Refresh procedure: Used to change the device key of the node and to add or delete models or features
  of the node.

The three NPPI procedures can be initiated with the :c:func:`bt_mesh_reprovision_remote` call:

.. code-block:: C

      struct bt_mesh_rpr_cli rpr_cli;
      struct bt_mesh_rpr_node srv = {
         .addr = 0x0006,
         .net_idx = 0,
         .ttl = BT_MESH_TTL_DEFAULT,
      };

      bool composition_changed = false;
      uint16_t new_addr = 0x0009;

>       (void)bt_mesh_reprovision_remote(&rpr_cli, &srv, new_addr, composition_changed);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      bt_mesh_reprovision_remote(&rpr_cli, &srv, new_addr, composition_changed);
```

> The above example shows pseudo code for triggering a Node Address Refresh procedure on the target RPR server node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above example shows pseudo code for triggering a Node Address Refresh procedure on the target node.
```

The specific procedure is not chosen directly, but rather through the other parameters that are inputted.
In the example we can see that the current unicast address of the target is 0x0006, while the new address is

> set to 0x0009. If the two addresses had been the same, and the composition_changed flag set to true, this code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
set to 0x0009. If the two addresses had been the same, and the ``composition_changed`` flag set to true, this code
```

would instead have triggered a Node Composition Refresh procedure. If the two addresses had been the same, and

> the composition_changed flag set to false, this code would have triggered a Device Key Refresh procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the ``composition_changed`` flag set to false, this code would have triggered a Device Key Refresh procedure.
```

.. _bluetooth_mesh_models_rpr_cli:

Remote Provisioning Client
##########################

The Remote Provisioning Client model is a foundation model defined by the Bluetooth
mesh specification. It is enabled with the
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_RPR_CLI` option.

> The Remote Provisioning Client model is introduced in the Bluetooth Mesh Protocol
> Specification version 1.1, and provides functionality to remotely provision devices into a mesh
> network, as well as performing Node Provisioning Protocol Interface procedures, by interacting with mesh nodes that supports the :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_models_rpr_srv` model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Remote Provisioning Client model is introduced in the Bluetooth Mesh Protocol
Specification version 1.1.
This model provides functionality to remotely provision devices into a mesh network, and perform Node Provisioning Protocol Interface procedures by interacting with mesh nodes that support the :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_models_rpr_srv` model.
```

using the device key of the node containing the target Remote Provisioning Server model instance.

If present, the Remote Provisioning Client model must be instantiated on the primary
element.

Scanning
********

The scanning procedure is used to scan for unprovisioned devices located nearby the Remote Provisioning Server. The Remote Provisioning Client starts a scan procedure by using the :c:func:`bt_mesh_rpr_scan_start` call:

.. code-block:: C

      static void rpr_scan_report(struct bt_mesh_rpr_cli *cli,
                  const struct bt_mesh_rpr_node *srv,
                  struct bt_mesh_rpr_unprov *unprov,
                  struct net_buf_simple *adv_data)
      {

      }

      struct bt_mesh_rpr_cli rpr_cli = {
         .scan_report = rpr_scan_report,
      };

      const struct bt_mesh_rpr_node srv = {
         .addr = 0x0004,
         .net_idx = 0,
         .ttl = BT_MESH_TTL_DEFAULT,
      };

      struct bt_mesh_rpr_scan_status status;
      uint8_t *uuid = NULL;
      uint8_t timeout = 10;
      uint8_t max_devs = 3;

      bt_mesh_rpr_scan_start(&rpr_cli, &srv, uuid, timeout, max_devs, &status);

> The above example shows pseudo code for starting a scan procedure on the target RPR server node. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The above example shows pseudo code for starting a scan procedure on the target Remote Provisioning Server node. This
```

> procedure will start a ten second multiple devices scanning where the generated scan report will contain

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
procedure will start a ten-second, multiple-device scanning where the generated scan report will contain
```

> a maximum of three unprovisioned device. If the UUID argument was specified, the same procedure would

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a maximum of three unprovisioned devices. If the UUID argument was specified, the same procedure would
```

> only scan for the device with the corresponding UUID. After the procedure completes the
> server will send the scan report that will be handled in the clients :c:member:`bt_mesh_rpr_cli.scan_report` callback.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
only scan for the device with the corresponding UUID. After the procedure completes, the
server sends the scan report that will be handled in the client's :c:member:`bt_mesh_rpr_cli.scan_report` callback.
```

Additionally, the Remote Provisioning Client model also supports extended scanning with the
:c:func:`bt_mesh_rpr_scan_start_ext` call. Extended scanning supplements regular scanning by allowing the
Remote Provisioning Server to report additional data for a specific device. The Remote Provisioning Server will use active scanning to request
a scan response from the unprovisioned device if it is supported by the unprovisioned device.

Provisioning
************

The Remote Provisioning Client starts a provisioning procedure by using the :c:func:`bt_mesh_provision_remote` call:

.. code-block:: C

      struct bt_mesh_rpr_cli rpr_cli;

      const struct bt_mesh_rpr_node srv = {
         .addr = 0x0004,
         .net_idx = 0,
         .ttl = BT_MESH_TTL_DEFAULT,
      };

      uint8_t uuid[16] = { 0xaa };
      uint16_t addr = 0x0006;
      uint16_t net_idx = 0;

      bt_mesh_provision_remote(&rpr_cli, &srv, uuid, net_idx, addr);

> The above example shows pseudo code for remotely provisioning a device through a RPR server node. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The above example shows pseudo code for remotely provisioning a device through a Remote Provisioning Server node. This
```

procedure will attempt to provision the device with the corresponding UUID, and assign the address 0x0006
to its primary element using the network key located at index zero.

> Please note that during remote provisioning the same :c:struct:`bt_mesh_prov` callbacks are triggered as for ordinary
> provisioning. Please refer to section :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_provisioning` for further details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that during the remote provisioning, the same :c:struct:`bt_mesh_prov` callbacks are triggered as for ordinary
provisioning. See section :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_provisioning` for further details.
```

Reviewer 3: Also, should this be a note?

> Re-Provisioning

Reviewer 3: I am not sure if Zephyr doc uses title case for headings, there are too many inconsistencies to actually tell. So we stick to what we know from NCS (sentence case in headings).
```suggestion
Re-provisioning
```

***************

In addition to scanning and provisioning functionality, the Remote Provisioning Client also provides means to

> reconfigure node addresses, device keys and composition data on devices that support the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
reconfigure node addresses, device keys and Composition Data on devices that support the
```

:ref:`bluetooth_mesh_models_rpr_srv` model. This is provided through the Node Provisioning Protocol Interface
(NPPI) which supports the following three procedures:

> - Device Key Refresh procedure: Used to change the device key of the target node without a need to reconfigure the node.
> - Node Address Refresh procedure: Used to change the node’s device key and unicast address.
> - Node Composition Refresh procedure: Used to change the device key of the node and to add or delete models or features
>   of the node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Device Key Refresh procedure: Used to change the device key of the Target node without a need to reconfigure the node.
* Node Address Refresh procedure: Used to change the node’s device key and unicast address.
* Node Composition Refresh procedure: Used to change the device key of the node, and to add or delete models or features of the node.
```

The three NPPI procedures can be initiated with the :c:func:`bt_mesh_reprovision_remote` call:

.. code-block:: C

      struct bt_mesh_rpr_cli rpr_cli;
      struct bt_mesh_rpr_node srv = {
         .addr = 0x0006,
         .net_idx = 0,
         .ttl = BT_MESH_TTL_DEFAULT,
      };

      bool composition_changed = false;
      uint16_t new_addr = 0x0009;

      bt_mesh_reprovision_remote(&rpr_cli, &srv, new_addr, composition_changed);

> The above example shows pseudo code for triggering a Node Address Refresh procedure on the target node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The above example shows pseudo code for triggering a Node Address Refresh procedure on the Target node.
```

The specific procedure is not chosen directly, but rather through the other parameters that are inputted.

> In the example we can see that the current unicast address of the target is 0x0006, while the new address is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the example we can see that the current unicast address of the Target is 0x0006, while the new address is
```

> set to 0x0009. If the two addresses had been the same, and the ``composition_changed`` flag set to true, this code
> would instead have triggered a Node Composition Refresh procedure. If the two addresses had been the same, and
> the ``composition_changed`` flag set to false, this code would have triggered a Device Key Refresh procedure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
set to 0x0009. If the two addresses were the same, and the ``composition_changed`` flag was set to true, this code
would instead trigger a Node Composition Refresh procedure. If the two addresses were the same, and
the ``composition_changed`` flag was set to false, this code would trigger a Device Key Refresh procedure.
```

.. _bluetooth_mesh_models_rpr_cli:

Remote Provisioning Client
##########################

The Remote Provisioning Client model is a foundation model defined by the Bluetooth
mesh specification. It is enabled with the
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_RPR_CLI` option.

> The Remote Provisioning Client model is introduced in the Bluetooth Mesh Profile

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Remote Provisioning Client model is introduced in the Bluetooth Mesh Protocol
```
... same in srv

> Specification version 1.1, and provides functionality to remotley provision devices into a mesh

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Specification version 1.1, and provides functionality to remotely provision devices into a mesh
```
Same in srv

> network by interacting with mesh nodes that supports the :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_models_rpr_srv` model.

Reviewer: It adds more features like NPPI(or how it is called in the last spec version?) interface to change composition data, address and device key. Probably it is worth to add a bit more about these abilities since they are quite important. 
Also, it adds extended scanning (that includes active scanning) but I'm not sure if it is worth to go so deep.

> The Remote Provisioning Client model communicates with an Remote Provisioning Server model

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Remote Provisioning Client model communicates with a Remote Provisioning Server model
```

> using the device key of the target node.

Reviewer 4: It might be confusing what "target node" is. The RPR server or the provisionee?

If present, the Remote Provisioning Client model must be instantiated on the primary

> element. It may also be supported by any secondary element.

Reviewer 2: We don't really support this as per my understanding. There is no check in `rpr_cli_init` that another RPR client instance was instantiate already, but even if we could instantiated several RPR clients, we can't provision multiple devices in parallel (we keep only one provisioning context). So I'd suggest to remove the second sentence and add check to `rpr_cli_init` in `rpr_cli.c` that element index is zero (like in server).
